>> Richard Feldman: Second thing we're
talking about is similar versus the same.
So this is a it of trap that is pretty
easy to fall into as programmers just in
general, Elm or otherwise.
Here's the trap.
So we've got something here on this
article page, [COUGH] called a status.
And the purpose of status
is to record in what state,
these two different HTTP requests are.
So we have a status for
loading the comments that come
along with this particular article.
So there's a little list of comments.
And separately, we fire off another
HTTP request to load the article.
Now these are running concurrently, so
it's possible that one of them's done,
the other one's still loading.
It's possible that neither
of them are done, or
it's possible that both of them are done.
Every combination of those is possible.
We've also got a separate distinction
here between Loading and LoadingSlowly.
LoadingSlowly means we've passed
the 500 millisecond threshold, and
is now considered to be a slow loader.
And we're going to show a loading
spinner to the user at that point.
So we have these four different states,
and they are sort of independent.
Either of these can be in either
state with any combination.
Okay, so this then leads to sort of
a natural question which is yeah,
don't we have this in
a bunch of different places?
Don't we have this on
a bunch of different pages?
Isn't this an opportunity for reuse?
We've done a tiny bit of reuse
here within this module.
We're using this type in
two places in this module.
But couldn't we be using it in more?
Why don't we use this thing
on the profile page, also,
which also has two different
HTTP requests that it's doing?
Why don't we use it on the editor,
which also is in the same boat of
at least needing one HTTP request?
We might as well have it load this
thing up so that it can use it for
the sake of DRY,
don't repeat yourself, as they say.
Well, let's take a look at those and
see what we actually ended
up doing instead just by doing
nothing else rather than saying, okay,
let's start by figuring out
the type that works for this page.
And then see if it turns out that
those needs are actually the same.
In other words, we successfully can reuse
this thing because the needs are the same,
or if actually the needs are similar but
not quite the same.
So here's what we ended
up with on Profile.
So on Profile, we also have a type called
Status, and it works very similarly.
We have author and feed,
those two different HTTP requests that
are loading concurrently with one another.
But it's not quite the same.
If you look at these two types,
here we have Loading, Loading Slowly.
Okay, we also Loading and
LoadingSlowly here, but
here each variant stores a username.
And failed, also stores a username.
This is an important distinction.
So on the profile page this is again,
getting into a concept,
[LAUGH] that we're gonna talk about in
a little bit in a different section.
But we wanna have a single source
of truth to answer the question,
what username are we looking at?
What is the current user?
Who's profile is this?
And the trick with that is that
we need to store that information
before we actually load the thing.
If I wanted to transition between these
states I potentially need to have
that information written down.
But actually once we're loaded,
I don't care anymore.
Once we got the profile,
it's not longer important.
But up until that point, it still is.
Now that's not true on the article page.
The article page doesn't have
that same design consideration.
It's not important for it to store any
additional information in the status.
It can just get away with Loading,
LoadingSlowly, and Failed.
No additional info needed.
Let's look at the editor.
Now this one,
we saw in the previous exercise,
this is actually even more complex.
Yeah, it's still got Loading and
LoadingSlowly, much like Profile,
it's also storing the slug, which is
to say the article that we're currently
viewing, so
it shares that design consideration.
But man, it doesn't even share
anymore stuff than than that.
Here it starts to get
into a serious departure.
So we now have this split between
Edit Article and New Article, and
each of them have different
shapes of statuses.
It's not just that each of them
could have a separate status,
it's that the very notions of statuses
that they have are different.
Edit has this whole series of statues
that have to do with loading,
whereas new doesn't.
When you're in the New Article
state you're either editing it,
in which case you've got potentially
a list of problems in the forum.
Or you're in the process of creating.
Now the distinction between these two is
when you hit the Create Article button,
we've validated your form, and confirmed
that there are no problems right now.
Everything's cool, we validated it, we
sent the HTTP request off to the server,
so there are no problems store in there.
In contrast, editing has the same
kind of situation there with saving,
but it now has a slug
associated with that.
Because when you're editing the article,
you need to know what the slug is
of the article that you're editing.
That's an important piece of information
for the code that's gonna run in there.
When you're a new article,
you don't have a slug yet.
It doesn't exist.
The whole point of this is we're trying
to create a new article from scratch and
the server tells us what the slug is.
We don't have one yet.
So we can see that although in all
three cases we happen to have a type
called status that effectively does
the same job in all three cases.
We don't actually really have a good
argument that we should be trying to do
reuse here.
Imagine if we tried to extend this initial
status type to be flexible enough to
accommodate all three use cases.
How much configuration will we have to
introduce to this thing to make it capable
of supporting this?
Really, what we'd end up doing is
we'd effectively end up taking this,
adding even more configuration on top
of it so that we could use this for
that as well without having to handle
all of those extraneous cases.
It's actually much better to just
repeat yourself, as it were.
[LAUGH] To go against
the wisdom of that acronym,
or the advice of that acronym and say,
yeah, actually these are similar.
They do a similar job.
They look similar.
They have the same name,
but they're not the same.
They actually do things differently enough
that it really does make sense not to
reach for reuse here.
It makes sense to say, yeah,
these are just different things.
They do the same job but
they're different.
We're just gonna have different types for
each of them.
And that's something that I think I
sort of had to learn the hard way over
the course of my years using Elm is that,
yeah,
reuse is not necessarily the first
thing to reach for in all cases.
In a lot of cases, it's better just
to say, no, these are different.
We're just gonna have
a different thing here.
I think there is a meaningful
difference when it comes to testing.
So I think one of the reasons
that I reached for
reuse as often as I did in JavaScript,
and I noticed that.
I believe DRY comes from
the Ruby community, which is,
of course, extremely big on testing,
is that, in JavaScript,
I needed to lean on tests a lot to believe
that my code was actually going to work.
I had a very low level of confidence in my
code actually working unless I had tests
around it.
And one of the things
about writing code and
then reusing it is that you also
get to reuse all the tests.
The thing is, in Elm, I have confidence in
this code, not because of the tests, but
because of the way that I've typed it.
The way that the compiler's going
to interact with my system and
sort of check everything out for me.
And that's gonna happen whether or
not I'm re-using it.
This thing right here gets just as much
love from the compiler as this thing, and
just as much from this thing.
In all cases, I'm writing the same number
of tests around these pieces of code which
is to say, none.
And if I were going to write tests around
this, I would actually want the test for
the state-transitions between these
different statuses to be pretty
different from the tests I would write for
this one or for this one.
In fact, if I were to look for
any opportunities for
use most likely it would be in the tests.
I would probably wanna write some
helper functions that would say, okay,
I wanna look at if I've got a Loading,
or LoadingSlowly, or Loaded, or
Failed the transitions between those two
should be the same regardless of username
versus not.
So if anything, I think that’s the
opportunity to reuse would be in testing,
and it would be do through doing a helper
function rather than by trying to
reuse the type itself.